I would like to see somebody, an anthropologist,
really look at this influence of how our legal
system, our judiciary system, our legislative
system, which is totally related to the nature of
the laws, which government is made of laws, not
men, I take it, but it nevertheless influences men
and their way of thinking. and there's a there's
really a tremendously and fundamental
inconsistency between the our system of advocacy
and science and the manner in which advice
guidance can be exercised of course other
political systems and i'm just guessing this
napoleonic ones of that nature may not be quite so
constrained. All sides and all doubts and all
questions and all levels of certainty can be
discussed more freely in a system of that nature,
perhaps.
So you see science as a sort of an explosive
institution where everybody puts in sorts of
ideas and argues, and eventually you, in effect,
would you say calculate risk? Like you say, the
risk of a nuclear plant is 0.2% in terms of doing
damage, so you ought to go ahead then and do what's
necessary to develop one. Is that fair to say, that
sort of open debate? I'm not a bit sure how the
nuclear power plant business has gone, really. I
think that what has happened is that many
companies developed nuclear power plants, and
they were really looking for patentable aspects
of them so that they could have control of them. I
know General Atomics had some very excellent
parts of their development. Somehow, all of this
should be put together in the best parts of all of
these put together, you see. But that hasn't
happened, I believe. So each company has its
weaknesses and its strengths. What we need is the
most certain sort of a nuclear power plant. But if
you want to talk about certainty and risk,
and I truly believe that if in the brain of the
archangel that runs this universe there is some
sort of a curve which says what are the risks to the
human race and the risks to the human race are not
probably the ones we recognize just exactly like
the risks in war are very often not the ones we
recognize and that if one really knew what this
curve looked like and could make the product of
risks and stakes, or on the positive side, risks
are possibilities and advantages. It's the rare
ones that are going to count, the very rare ones.
The fact that we can foresee you might have a
nuclear accident is probably a trivial risk
anyway. If you multiply the stakes times the risk,
it's a very low number.
On the other hand, there are a great number of other
things that probably are not so. natural events.
And I truly think science's role is to explore
these more unlikely possibilities. Let's look at
the positive side for an instance. There is no
science that rules out the existence of a
particle, which is a normal particle that has an
opposite charge of gravity, just a negative
gravity particle. There's no law that rules such a
particle out. There is a rule that says if nothing
rules it out, it probably exists. What are the
possibilities of such a particle existing and
that we could make them? A billion to one? Maybe so.
But what are the advantages if we could? Rise to an
anti-gravity particle? We'd be in real business
if it were a normal matter, not nanomatic. We'd
really be in business, wouldn't we? The boon to the
world would be absolutely incredible. The
product of possibility and value is an immense
one, even though it's only a billion to one, or
whatever it is. The product is huge. We must
explore, both on the positive side and the
negative side, these much more outlandish, outre
possibilities, it seems to me. And we've got to
think, and the anthropologists also, and the
historians should really think about what are the
The risks and the advantages that are critical to
the survival of this species, which I take it is one
of our principal concerns.
I don't think we're progressing very well.